.TH TRAYER-SRG 1 LOCAL
.SH NAME
  trayer-srg - a lightweight GTK2-based systray for UNIX desktop
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B trayer
.\"
.RB [\| \-\-edge
.RI \| left \||\| right \||\| top \||\| bottom \||\| none \|]
.\"
.RB [\| \-\-align
.RI \| left \||\| right \||\| center \|]
.\"
.RB [\| \-\-margin
.RI \| <size> \|]
.\"
.RB [\| \-\-widthtype
.RI \| request \||\| pixel \||\| percent
.RI \|]
.\"
.RB [\| \-\-width
.RI \| <size> \|]
.\"
.RB [\| \-\-heighttype
.RI \| <pixel> \|]
.\"
.RB [\| \-\-height
.RI \| <size> \|]
.\"
.RB [\| \-\-SetDockType
.RI \| true \||\| false \|]
.\"
.RB [\| \-\-SetPartialStrut
.RI \| true \||\| false \|]
.\"
.RB [\| \-\-transparent
.RI \| true \||\| false \|]
.\"
.RB [\| \-\-alpha
.RI \| <value> \|]
.\"
.RB [\| \-\-tint
.RI \| <color> \|]
.\"
.RB [\| \-\-distance
.RI \| <length> \|]
.\"
.RB [\| \-\-distancefrom
.RI \| left \||\| right \||\| top \||\| bottom \||\| none \|]
.\"
.RB [\| \-\-expand
.RI \| true \||\| false \|]
.\"
.RB [\| \-\-padding
.RI \| <size> \|]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION

trayer is small program designed to provide systray functionality present in
.B GNOME
/
.B KDE
desktop environments for window managers which doesn't support that
function. It's similar to other applications such as
.B peksystray
and \fBdocker\fP.

trayer code was extracted from fbpanel application, you can find more about it on it's homepage:
.IB http://fbpanel.sourceforge.net/

You can find new versions of trayer and support on FVWM-Crystal project homepage:
.IB http://fvwm-crystal.berlios.de/

trayer-srg was forked from trayer in January 2010 to add some fancy features and clean up code.
It contains all changes from above versions as far as known.
Code of trayer-srg can be found on github:
.IB http://github.com/sargon/trayer-srg
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
prints help message and exits
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
prints version and exits
.TP
\fB\-\-edge\fP \fI<edge>\fP
Use
.I EDGE
for orientation. Possible values for
.I EDGE
are
.BR left,
.BR right,
.BR top,
.BR bottom
or
.BR none.
The default value is
.BR bottom.
.TP
\fB\-\-align\fP \fI<alignment>\fP
Orientation of docked icons inside the trayer panel. Possible values are
.BR left,
.BR center,
.BR right,
or
.BR none.
The default value is
.BR center.
.TP
\fB\-\-margin\fP \fI<size>\fP
Length of margin in pixels. The default value is
.BR 0.
.TP
.TP
\fB\-\-distance\fP \fI<length>\fP[,\fI<length>\fP]
Space between trayer's window and screen edge (in pixels). If only one value for two edges
-is given, the same value is applied to both edges.
When set to 0 the option has no effect.
The default value is
.BR 0.
.TP
\fB\-\-distancefrom\fP \fI<edge>\fP[,\fI<edge>\fP]
Specifies which edges to calculate distance from, see
.BR \-\-edge.
The default value is
.BR top.
 When
.BR \-\-distance
is 0 this option has no effect.
.TP
\fB\-\-widthtype\fB \fIrequest\fP\||\|\fIpixel\fP\||\|\fIpercent\fP\||\|\fInone\fP
Determine how width is calculated.
.RS
.TP
\fIrequest\fP
Follow application icons' size, so trayer may shrink or expand dynamically.

.TP
\fIpixel\fP
Set a fixed size, given with \fB\-\-width\fP option in pixels.

.TP
\fIpercent\fP
Set a fixed size, given with \fB\-\-width\fP option in percentage of a length of
screen edge.

.TP
\fInone\fP
.TP
The default value is \fBpercent\fP.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-width\fP \fI<size>\fP
Width of a panel. When
.BR \-\-widthtype=request
this option has no effect. The default value is
.BR 100.
.TP
\fB\-\-heighttype\fP \fIrequest\fP\||\|\fIpixel\fP\||\|\fIpercent\fP\||\|\fInone\fP
Determine how height is calculated.
.RS
.TP
\fIrequest\fP
Follow application icons' size, so trayer may shrink or expand dynamically.

.TP
\fIpixel\fP
Set a fixed size, given with \fB\-\-height\fP option in pixels.

.TP
\fIpercent\fP
Set a fixed size, given with \fB\-\-height\fP option in percentage of a length of screen edge.

.TP
\fInone\fP
.TP
The default value is \fBpixel\fP.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-height\fP \fI<size>\fP
Height of trayer's window. When
.BR \-\-heigthtype=request
this option has no effect. The default value is
.BR 26.
.TP
\fB\-\-SetDockType\fP \fItrue\fP\||\|\fIfalse\fP
Identify panel window type as dock. The default value is
.BR true.
.TP
\fB\-\-SetPartialStrut\fP \fItrue\fP\||\|\fIfalse\fP
Reserve panel space so that it will not be covered by maximized windows. The
default value is
.BR false.
.TP
\fB\-\-transparent\fP \fItrue\fP\||\|\fIfalse\fP
Use transparency. The default value is
.BR false.
.TP
\fB\-\-tint\fP \fI<color>\fP
Color used to "tint" transparent background. Color is given as a 24-bit C
hexadecimal integer, for example: 0xff0000 is red, 0xff8800 is orange and
0x00ff00 is green.
The default value is
.BR 0xFFFFFFFF.
.TP
\fB\-\-alpha\fP \fI<value>\fP
Percentage of transparency (0 \- nontransparent, 255 \- fully transparent).
.I value
should be a value between 0 and 255. The default value is
.BR 127.
.TP
\fB\-\-expand\fP \fItrue\fP\||\|\fIfalse\fP
Specifies if trayer can accommodate extra space or not. The default
value is
.BR true.
.TP
\fB \-\-padding\fP \fI<size>\fP
Number of extra pixel space between trayer's window frame and docked icons. The
default value is
.BR 0.
.TP
.BR \-\-monitor\fP \fI<monitor>\fP
Define the monitor on which you like trayer to appear. Number of zero to number
of monitors minus one, or the string "primary" are valid. The default value is
.BR 0.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Place trayer to the top right edge of the screen and prevent other fullsize
windows to overlay it:
.RS
.nf
\f8trayer trayer --edge top --align right --SetDockType true --SetPartialStrut true --expand true --transparent true\fP
.fi
.RE
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to the issue tracker:
.I https://github.com/sargon/trayer-srg/issues
.SH CONTRIBUTORS
  Following people are or has been involved in development of trayer-srg:

.IP "Maciej Delmanowski <harnir@users.berlios.de>"
.IP "Anatoly Asviyan <aanatoly@users.sf.net>
fbpanel
.IP "Rafal Bisingier <ravbc@man.poznan.pl>"
conversion of configuration using  ~/.fbpanel/* files to commandline options
.IP "Grzegorz Niewęgłowski <hoppke@dobremiasto.net>"
code extraction from fbpanel
.IP "Thomas Rydzynski"
added new option 'distance'
.IP "Keegan Carruthers-Smith <keegan.csmith@gmail.com>"
fix align
.IP "Yury Akudovich"
added new option distancefrom option
.IP "Jens Peter Secher <jps@debian.org>"
various (debian trayer fork)
.IP "Daniel Ehlers <danielehlers@mindeye.net>"
multi monitor support, code cleanup and current maintainer.
.IP "Stu Black"
help closing a problem with wrong values in _NET_WM_STRUT_PARTIAL
.IP "Michael Weber"
fix build problems, improvements cmdline parameter handling
.IP "Johannes Bittner"
primary switch for monitor selection
.IP "Vladimir Murzin <murzin.v@gmail.com>"
fixing transparency startup problem
.IP "Corey Richardson <corey@octayn.net>" Found some default value fuckup
.IP "Constantine Verutin" React on changes in monitor setup.
.IP "Robbie Harwood" Fixup build
.IP "Omar Sandoval" Fixups

.SH AUTHOR
  This man page is written by Daniel Ehlers.
